que ) what is programming ?
set of instructions given to the computer to perform specific task
called programming

que) what is python programming ?
python is high level, interpreted,dynamically typed, open source , 
Object oriented language used in software development and AIML.

high level - human understandable
interpreted - code execute line by line
dynamically typed - no need to declare data typed
open source - free to use
Object oriented - focus on reusability and modular code

que) what are the features of python ?
1. open source
2. high level
3. dynamically typed
4. database support ( sqlalchemy )
5. platform independent - runs on diff os
6. standard libraries support
7. Object oriented
8. case sensitive
9. large community support 
10. provide GUI (Graphical User Interface) -- tkinter , streamlit

que ) who invented python and in which year ?
guido van rossom developed python in 1989 
but first version of python released in 1991

que ) difference btw python2 and python3
python2 officially ended in 2020 where as python3 actively support
python2 uses unicode for string where as python3 has default unicode
python2 has true division where as python3 has floor div which return int output
python2 is less secure than python3

que) what is variable ?
variable is a container that store data value 

Rules to define variables:
1.variables contain numbers, alphabets and underscore
2.variables are case sensitive
3.keywords are not used as variables name
4.special character except underscore  and white spaces not allowed,
5.variables name cannot start with numbers

naming convensions:
python program
1. camelcase : pythonProgram
2. snakecase : python_program
3. pascalcase : PythonProgram

Que ) what is keywords ?
keywords are reserved words whose meaning already defined in python interpreter

notes:
1. there are 35 to 39 keywords in python depends on version.
2. keywords are case sensitive
3. all keywords are in small case except True, False and None.
4. keywords are not used as variable name

Que) what is identifier ?
User defined names gives to classes, modules, packages to identify program

Que ) what is Operators ?
Operators are the symbols used to perform specific task

types of operators:
1.arithmetic op : 
perform arithmetic operations on the values
+ - * / // % ** 
// = int value 
/ =  float values


2. assignment op :
assign values to the variable
= += -= *= /= //= **=

3. logical OP:
used to compare multiple conditions 

and , or, not
and = return true if both condiitons are true
or = returns true if one of the conditon is true
not = if condition is false it returns true and if condition true it returns false

4.comparison
used to compare values from both side
== >= <= > < !=


5. bitwise op:
works on bits 
decimal values convert into binary and then operation perform on binary values

bitwise and - 
bitwise or -
bitwise Xor -
left shift -
right shift - 

6.membership op:
used to check value is present in seq or not
in 
not in 

7.identity op :
used to check memory location

is 
is not

que ) what is differnce btw is and == ?
is is identity operator which is used to check memory location
whereas == is comparision operator which is used to check values of the both side


Que ) what are the data types in python 
numeric = int, float , complex
boolean
set 
dict
sequence typed - list , tuple, string

ques) what are the data stuctures in python
set
dict
list
tuple
string

set : set is collection of items stored in one variable enclosed in curly brackets
having properties unordered, mutable, heterogenous and unique.
set methods :
add() - element add at end of the set
update() - add multiple element in the set
union() - returns combination of two set
intersection() - returns common elements from two sets
difference() - element present in set A which are not present in set B or
element preent in set B which are not presetn in set a
symmetric difference() - (A - B) and (B - A)
issubset() - used to check current set is subset of other set
issuperset() - used to check current set is superset of other set 
remove() - it returns the error if element not present
discard() - it does not return the error if element not present
pop() - randomly delete the element
clear() - all elements Remove 
empty set - 

2 ) list : List is collection of items stored in one variable enclosed in square brackets
having properties ordered, mutable, heterogenous and allow duplicates.

methods of list :
append() - add element in the end of the list
extend() - combine two list or add multiple elements
pop() - it removes first occurance of the element
remove() - remove last inserted element 
insert() - insert element at the specific position
count() - count occurance of element
clear() - remove all elements
copy() - create duplicate list or shallow copy
reverse() - it reverse the order of the list
sort() - sort the list according to ascecending or descending order

l = [19,30,24,36,46,76,34,23]
i want to sort this list in descending order
---- sort list and then revrse it using reverse () methods

3)  dict : dictionary is collections of items stored in key value pair enclosed in curly brackets
having properties unordered, keys are unique and values may be duplicate, heterogenous, mutable

methods :
get() - get values of the key
update() - add new key value pair
keys() - it returns all keys from the dict
items() - it returns key and value pair in tuple
values() - it returns all values from the dict
pop() -remove specific element 
copy() - create a shallow copy 
clear() - remove all elements
popitem() - remove last inserted element


4) tuple :tuple is collection of items stored in one variable enclosed in parenthesis
having properties ordered, immutable, heterogenous, allow duplicates

methods:
1. count() -  count of occurance of element
2. index() - it return particular element using index

5) string:string is sequence of characters enclosed in single quote or double quote
having properties homogenous, immutable, ordered, allow duplicates

methods :
strip() - remove blank space from both side
uppper() =  convert text into upper case
lower() = convert text into lower case
title() - first letter of each word in sentence is capital
capitalize() - first letter of the sentence is capital.
split() - it spilt the string into spefic string
join() - join words using delimiter
lstrip() - remove blank spaces from left side
rstrip() - remove blank spaces from right side
isnum() - check string contain numbers or not
isalnum() = check string contain numbers and alphabets
isalpha() - check the string contain alphabets
isstartswith() - check the string strat with
isendwith() - it also check the ends with 

text = "###ABC###"
text = "ABC"

question) what is string slicing and string indexing
string indexing is used to access particular element from the string
types of indexing 
1. positive indexing
starts from left to right and starts from 0

2. negative indexing
starts from right to left and  starts from -1 

string slicing :
extract subpart of the string using start stop and step
[start:stop:step]
start - inclusive
stop - exclusive

que )  what is type casting ?
conversion of one data type to another data type
there ate two types :
1. implicit type casting - automatically convert data types into another types 
2. explicit type casting - manually convert by user(programmer ) according to their need

que ) what is difference between break, pass and continue  statement ?
break = immediately stop the loop
continue = skip current iteration
pass = do nothing act like a placeholder

que) diff btw for loop and while loop ?
in for loop no of iterations are known whereas in while loop no of iterations are unknown

que) what is elif statement ?
it used to check multiple conditions

ques ) what is nested if ?
first condition depends on another condition

ques) what is function ?
block of code used to perform specific task called functions

types of functions
1. user defined functions - function created by user
2. build in functions - functions which is defined by python interpreter

user defined functions has two types:
1. parameterized functions - functions which has parameters 
2. non parameterized functions - functions which does not have parameters 

que) what is diff btw parameter and argument ?
parameters are the variables which assign at the time of function creation
arguments are the values which created at the time fo function called

que ) which keyword is used to define a function ?
def 

que ) what is special functions ?
lambda function - it is small anonomous function which written single like having argument and expression
using lambda keyword
map  - used to mapping the sequence (generate new seq from exiting seq)

reduce -  reduce seq in single value (funtool)
filter - used to apply filter on the seq

Que ) what are the types of arguments ?
1. positional
2. default
3. keyword
4. arbitary 

Que ) what is python Oops ?
Python is Object oriented programming language which use class and object which is real world entities
in Python there are four pillars:
1. abstraction
2. polymorphism
3. Inheritance
4. encapsulation

1. abstraction :
abstraction is a process in which hide complex functionality and showing only essential details
abstraction is archieved by using - abstract method and abstract base class

2. encapsulation :
encapsulation is process in which data and method bind together in a single unit
it used to protect data by using access modifiers
Access modifiers are:
1. public : access everywhere
2. protected : access in class and subclass 
3. private : access only within class

getter and setter methods - use to access data safely
getter methods is used to get data 
setter methods is used to set data

3.polymorphism:
ability of function to create multiple forms
types of polymorphism:
1. method overloading 
2. method overriding

method overloading: same method name with different parameters
method overriding : same method name with same parameters

is python support method overloading ?
No , python does not support method overloading but we can perform using *args 

4.Inheritance:
Inheritance is a process in which child class inherits properties of parent class

types of  Inheritance:

1. single Inheritance - one child class and one parent class 
2. multiple Inheritance - more parent class and single child class
3. multilevel Inheritance - parent class inherits grandparent class and child class inherits properties of parent class means child class indirectly inherits properties of grandparent class
4. hierarchicical Inheritance - more child class and one parent class so we have multiple objects.
5. hybrid Inheritance - combination of two or more than two types of Inheritance.


que) what is file handling ?
file handling is a mechanism in which we perform operations like read, write, append on external files 
external files are binary files, text files or images , videos

modes in file handling:
r - read
w - write
a - append

binary files
rb - read binary
wb - write binary
ab - append binary

with statement : if file not present then it crete automatically and when we perform opertion it get closed automatically

file.close()
file.open()

read() -- to read complete content in the txt file
readline() -- to read single line of the text file
readlines() -- it returns all lines in the form of list 

what is diff btw write mode and append mode ??
write - it remove old content in the text file and add new content ( mode - w and method - write())
append - it add the new content at the end of the text file ( mode - a and methods - write())

how i delete text file ??
import Os 
os.remove(file name)

Que ) what is exception handling ?

the mechanism which handles the run time errors which disturb the normal flow of execution.

types of errros:
1. syntaxtical error - are arise due to syntax error
2. logical error - are arise due to wrong operation 
3. run time error - are the errors which  generate due to external conditions . for example : division by zero program

run time error are known as exceptions

how we handled this exceptions?
we use some keyword to handle the exceptions like try, except, finally and else , raise

try - it include risky code
except - if  exception occur then except block runs 
finally - error occur or not it always excecute
raise - to create custom error we use raise keyword
else - optional block of code

que ) what is modules ?
module is a single .py file which contain classes, functions and methods
which used as a module in another file

there are two types of modules:
1. user defined - are created by user to perform specific task according to need
2. Build in module - are the modules already defined in python

buid in modules
math
os
calendar
random
functool
keyword

que ) what are packages ?
packages is collection of multiple modules with init file

__init__ .py -- used for configuration 

types of packages
1. user defined packages 
2. built in packages